refactoring jupyter guide (#91)
osg-htc/user-documentation: documentation/htc_workloads/submitting_workloads/jupyter.md

  path: htc_workloads/submitting_workloads/jupyter.md
---

# OSPool Notebooks: Access the OSPool via Jupyter Lab

[TOC]

The OSG team supports an OSPool Notebooks service, a Jupyter Lab interface that 
connects with an OSPool Access Point. An OSPool Notebook instance 
can be used to manage files, submit jobs, summarize results and run tutorials. 

# Quick Start

Go to this link to start an OSPool Notebooks instance: 

[Launch an OSPool Notebook](https://notebook.ospool.osg-htc.org){ .md-button }

- You will be prompted to "Sign in" using your institution credentials.
- Once logged in, you will be automatically redirected to the "Server Options" page. Several server options are listed, supporting a variety of programming environment and scientific workflows. 
- Select your desired server option and click "Start" to launch your instance. This process can take several minutes to complete. You will be redirected automatically when your instance is ready.

If you have an existing account on the `ap40.uw.osg-htc.org` Access Point, the 

> started Jupyter instance will connect to your account on that AP. If you don't have 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
started Jupyter instance will connect to your account on that Access Point. If you don't have 
```

**Ease of access**: All you need to access OSPool Notebooks is an internet connection 
and web browser! You don't need an account, ssh keys, or anything else installed 
on your computer. 

**User-friendly environment**: The JupyterLab environment provides access to notebooks, terminals, and text editors in a visual environment, making it easier to use for researchers with newer command line skills. 

**Learn yourself, train others**: We have self-serve tutorials that 
anyone can use by starting up an OSPool Notebook and then going through the materials. 
This can be used by individuals (with or without an OSPool account!) or by anyone who 
wants to run a training on using the OSPool. 

**Integration with Access Point**: If you have an existing OSPool account, 
on `ap40.uw.osg-htc.org`, the OSPool Notebook service allows you to have the 
above benefits as part of your full OSPool account. If you start with a guest account, 
and then apply for a full account, you can keep 
using the same interface to work with the full OSPool. 

# Working with your OSPool Notebooks Instance

There will be slight differences in your OSPool Notebook instance, depending 

> on whether you have an existing OSPool account and where it is. Click on 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on whether you have an existing OSPool account and what Access Point it is on. Click on 
```
